.TH SVCMON 1 2020\-04\-09
.SH NAME
svcmon - OpenSVC agent's services instances status requesting command.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B svcmon
om mon [ \fIOPTIONS\fP ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
In the OpenSVC infrastructure, the node is an operating system instance with an OpenSVC agent installed. The node may host OpenSVC services instances. The \fBsvcmon\fP program prints the digested cluster and services status.
.SH COMMANDS

Flags:
  O  up
  o  stdby up
  X  down
  x  stdby down
  !  warn
  P  unprovisioned
  *  frozen
  ^  leader node or service placement non-optimal
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B --version
show program's version number and exit
.TP
.B -h, --help
show this help message and exit
.TP
.B --color=COLOR
colorize output. possible values are : auto=guess based on tty presence, always|yes=always colorize, never|no=never colorize
.TP
.B --server=SERVER
The server uri to send a request to. If not specified the local node is targeted. Supported schemes are https and raw. The default scheme is https. The default port is 1214 for the raw scheme, and 1215 for https. The uri can be a fullpath to a listener socket. In this case, the scheme is deduced from the socket. Examples: raw://1.2.3.4:1214, https://relay.opensvc.com, /var/lib/opensvc/lsnr/h2.sock.
.TP
.B --node=NODE
The nodes to display information for. If not specified, all nodes are displayed.
.TP
.B --namespace=NAMESPACE
The namespace to switch to for the action. Namespaces are cluster partitions. A default namespace can be set for the session setting the OSVC_NAMESPACE environment variable.
.TP
.B --stats
refresh the information every --interval.
.TP
.B -w, --watch
refresh the information every --interval.
.TP
.B -i INTERVAL, --interval=INTERVAL
with --watch, set the refresh interval. defaults to 0, to refresh on event only.
.TP
.B --sections=SECTIONS
the comma-separated list of sections to display. if not set, all sections are displayed. sections names are: threads,arbitrators,nodes,services.
.TP
.B -s PARM_SVCS, --service=PARM_SVCS
An object selector expression '[!]<expr>[<sep>[!]<expr>]' where:

- '!' is the expression negation operator

- '<sep>' can be:

  - ',' OR expressions

  - '+' AND expressions

- '<expr>' can be:

  - a shell glob on service names

  - '<param><op><value>' where:

    - '<param>' can be:

      - '<rid>:'

      - '<group>:'

      - '<rid>.<key>'

      - '<group>.<key>'

    - '<op>' can be:

      - '<'  '>'  '<='  '>='  '='

      - '~' with regexp value

Examples:

- '*dns,ha*+app.timeout>1'

- 'ip:+task:'

- '!*excluded'

Note:

- '!' usage requires single quoting the expression to prevent shell history expansion
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR nodemgr (1)
.BR svcmgr (1)
.BR svcmon (1)
.SH AUTHORS
OpenSVC is developped and maintained by the OpenSVC company.
